---
layout: default
title: Creating Your Own Show
parent: Overview
nav_order: 3
---

## Join the next Season of Onboard
OnBoardXR participants bring first-prototypes to life at the cutting edge of web-based virtual reality in a combined showcase event. OnBoardXR is a non-profit, volunteer-driven initiative to onboard new artists and audiences into live performance on the immersive web. Therefore our events our held seasonally based on volunteer and participant availability. 

### Phases of Participation
The 2023 will include two seasonal showcases while offering support to continued development and production of previous prototypes. New proposals will be considered up to one (1) month before the beginning of each Showcase. All Participants will be required to attend a group overview one (1) month before the beginning of their Showcase, followed by a 2-week development and build cycle on Participants' own schedule. 

Each Season, a loose theme is proposed and Participating Artists are invited to submit an Application to present a live performance prototype on the OnBoardXR platform during the Showcase dates and submit an case study paper documenting their process and learnings. 

#### **2023 Showcases**
- May 8-22 | Theme: *"Playable Theatre & Gamified Storytelling"* 
- October 2-16 | Theme: *"Interactive Audio-Visual & Narrative Sound Art"*

#### **Timeline**
* Accepting Proposals up to 1 month before Showcase
* Attend 15-minute Overview and Q&A 1 month before Showcase
* 2-week Build
* 2-week Showcase
* Submit Paper / Documentation

### Submit A Proposal
We host regular showcase opportunities and think tanks for the development and presentation of new work. This is an open-submission process via a standard application to ensure you understand the tools and procedures for OnBoardXR. A [step-by-step guide to our application](https://discord.com/channels/849041584905388053/957669626408493087/957691545220444300) is on our Discord, otherwise you may [directly access the application here](https://forms.gle/nbnhGV1jp4xgtFQ1A).

### Participation Requirements & Support

#### Participation Requirements
- A Live Performance Prototype
- Lifelong [`Attribution`](https://futurestages.github.io/OnBoardXR_Landing_Page/docs/branding/#attribution) of OnBoardXR Contributions
- Follow our [`Code of Conduct`](https://futurestages.github.io/OnBoardXR_Landing_Page/docs/glossary-guidelines/)
- Follow our Deadlines for Meetings, Rehearsals and Performances 
- Follow our Deliverables for Scenes, Assets and Documentation
- Promote the Showcase within your own network, social media and email list
- Submit a [`Case Study`]([./case-studies.md](https://futurestages.github.io/OnBoardXR_Landing_Page/docs/case-studies) to be published in OnBoardXR blog or journals

#### Participation Support
- Free [`Server & Codebase`](./dev-with-us.md) Access for the duration of the Showcase
- Access to OnBoardXR's Tools
- Access to OnBoardXR's Articles & Tutorials
- Creative Control & Ownership of your Prototype
- A peer-supported, outside organization that programs your work
- A recognized Showcase attended by actual audiences
- Participation in revenue generated by showcase
- Guidance for creating Cues & Assets
- A collabortative group for accountability & support
- Inclusion in all Marketing / Press
- Event-level Ticketing handled by OnBoardXR
- Event-level Management handled by OnBoardXR
- Access to Audience Surveys
- Inclusion in all Award Submissions 

### The 21-Day Challenge
In our fifth season, we released [a series of video tutorials](./obxr-21-day-challenge.md) to guide newcomers through the entire OnBoardXR process and toolkit. This video series will step you through how to develop, build and launch your first prototype on your own schedule.

### Discord Community
Our [Discord Community](https://discord.gg/qPgbxawu9W) is a place for knowledge-sharing, mentorship and support both on and off season. 

Please remember, this community contains other freelance artists and technologists who are volunteering their time and talent for new performance prototypes and they are not obligated to respond or assist your own creative work. 

As with any online community, we have a zero tolerance policy for harassment, hate speech and spam. As a rule, we do not allow unsolicited feedback or criticism. 

## Programming Guidelines and Protocols
Please review and follow our [`Guidelines and Protocols`](https://futurestages.github.io/OnBoardXR_Landing_Page/docs/glossary-guidelines/).
