---
layout: default
title: Guidelines and Protocols
parent: Repository
nav_order: 
---

## Programming Guidelines and Protocols
OnBoardXR offers a glimpse at the exciting potential of the future workforce and creative economy through connecting international artists in a shared mission and collaboration. We are essentially *“the thespian society of the metaverse,”* a community theater not defined by a single community or venue. 

With any large group of people, there will inevitably arise disagreements or differences in preferences and processes for creation and communication. The following Programming Guidelines and Protocols outline our expectations from our community members, performances, partners and audiences. *Community Members are encouraged to copy-and-paste the applicable policy or contact the appropriate team member for assistance rather than waste time and energy defending or disputing violations in our Discord.* 

1.	Like any online community, **we reserve the right to block or kick any user at any time**, without warning, for behavior we interpret to be harassment, bullying, hate-speech, spam, predatory, divisive or disruptive. If you're looking for a public space to randomly chat, this community is not intended for that either. We welcome you to return after a banned period to sincerely engage with our community and content.
2.	**OnBoardXR is *not* a producing entity.** You are expected to develop and produce your own work as a self-generative artist. We do offer mentorship and 'soft support' through our showcases and sandboxes, however this is a community of volunteers, many of whom are working professionals in sectors of entertainment, education and technology. *No one is obligated to participate or assist in your project or problem*. You are welcome to offer employment, collaboration or inquiry to community members, however we shall interpret any mass or repetitive messaging to solicit/demand any community members' response (publicly or privately) as a form of harassment.
3.	Our [Discord Fundamentals](https://discord.com/channels/849041584905388053/882000662798430218/920057393872797736) outline **expectations and best practices**, primarily to stay within the topic of conversation for each channel; using reactions or GIFs when posting non-essential information; and using sub-theads for lengthy discussions. This allows our text threads to be more efficiently managed by all members and moderators. 
4.	OnBoardXR showcases and team members are under **no obligation** to include, support, troubleshoot, promote or present your work in their showcases or community, especially if a project does not align with our community guidelines or its original application submission. 
5.	Your **participation in OnBoardXR is entirely voluntary and subject to your compliance with deadlines and devlierables.** As many of OnBoardXR's showcases include the work of multiple artists, we reserve the right to remove any participant whose process or project undermines the performance and/or experience of other artists, audience or OnBoardXR team members.
6.	**You must hold the license/copyrights for any and all materials or assets you present** through OnBoardXR showcases and tools. For clarity, this means you are the sole owner and/or creator of all assets, media or materials uploaded or broadcast on OnBoardXR.live or have procured [the appropriate clearance, permissions and licenses](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6pgMtJHg9gg) for such items. 
7.	While we are not creatively prescriptive and have a **zero-tolerance policy for unsolicited feedback,** we do not accept or program work that violates the United States' Federal Communications Commission's definition of obscene, indecent and profane content. **We also reserve the right to reject or remove any content that is perceived to harm, discomfort or disrupt other community members.**
8.	OnBoardXR can only offer an abundant culture of knowledge-sharing if its community is the beneficiary of this support. **We expect our participants to share their own findings** early and often and [properly attribute](https://futurestages.github.io/OnBoardXR_Landing_Page/docs/branding/) the labor and learnings they receive from OnBoardXR by including the name and date of the OnBoardXR showcase and individuals which provided support to a prototype in any and all continued marketing, production, publishing or messaging.
